An Introduction to OGC API - Processes ==================

# Introduction

The OGC API --- Processes standard supports the wrapping of
computational tasks into executable processes that can be offered by a
server through a Web API and be invoked by a client application. The
standard specifies a processing interface to communicate over a RESTful
protocol using JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) encodings. The standard
leverages concepts from the OGC Web Processing Service (WPS) 2.0
Interface Standard but does not require implementation of a WPS. The
Core part of the standard is called **OGC API - Processes - Part 1:
Core**. The Core part of the standard supports the wrapping of
computational tasks into executable processes that can be offered by a
server through a Web API and be invoked by a client application either
synchronously or asynchronously. Examples of computational processes
that can be supported by implementations of this specification include
raster algebra, geometry buffering, constructive area geometry, routing,
imagery analysis and several others.

::: note
::: title
Note
:::

This tutorial module is not intended to be a replacement to the actual
**OGC API - Processes - Part 1: Core** standard. The tutorial
intentionally focuses on a subset of capabilities in order to get the
student started with using the standard. Please refer to the **OGC API -
Processes - Part 1: Core** standard for additional detail.
:::

# Background

History

:   Several of the concepts specified in OGC API - Processes originated
    in work specifying a RESTful interface for WPS 2.0. From February
    2019 onwards, all work relating to a RESTful interface for the WPS
    2.0 was changed to focus on OGC API - Processes.

Versions

:   **OGC API - Processes - Part 1: Core** version 1.0.0 is the current
    latest version

Test Suite

:   

    **Draft** Test suites are available for:

    :   -   [OGC API -
            Processes](https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-ogcapi-processes10)

Implementations

:   Implementations can be found here
    \<<https://github.com/opengeospatial/ogcapi-processes/blob/master/implementations.adoc>\>

## Usage

**OGC API - Processes - Part 1: Core** supports the wrapping of
computational tasks into executable processes that can be offered by a
server through a Web API and be invoked by a client application.
Government agencies, private organisations and academic institutes use
the OGC API - Processes standard to provide implementations of
geospatial algorithms that process data. The benefit of this is that the
processing of geospatial data, including data from sensors, can be
distributed thereby allowing for more capacity to process larger amounts
of data.

## Relation to other OGC Standards

-   OGC Web Processing Service Interface Standard (WPS): The WPS
    Standard provides a standard interface that simplifies the task of
    making simple or complex computational geospatial processing
    services accessible via web services. The OGC API --- Processes
    Standard is a newer and more modern way of programming and
    interacting with resources over the web while allowing better
    integration into existing software packages. The OGC
    API --- Processes Standard addresses all of the use cases that were
    addressed by the WPS Standard, while also leveraging the OpenAPI
    specification and a resource-oriented approach.

# Overview of Resources

**OGC API - Processes - Part 1: Core** defines the resources listed in
the following table.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Resource                     Path                               Purpose
  ---------------------------- ---------------------------------- ---------------
  Landing page                 /                                  This is the
                                                                  top-level
                                                                  resource, which
                                                                  serves as an
                                                                  entry point.

  Conformance declaration      /conformance                       This resource
                                                                  presents
                                                                  information
                                                                  about the
                                                                  functionality
                                                                  that is
                                                                  implemented by
                                                                  the server.

  API Definition               /api                               This resource
                                                                  provides
                                                                  metadata about
                                                                  the API itself.
                                                                  Note use of
                                                                  **/api** on the
                                                                  server is
                                                                  optional and
                                                                  the API
                                                                  definition may
                                                                  be hosted on
                                                                  completely
                                                                  separate
                                                                  server.

  Process list                 /processes                         Process
                                                                  identifiers,
                                                                  links to
                                                                  process
                                                                  descriptions.

  Process description          /processes/{processID}             Retrieves a
                                                                  process
                                                                  description.

  Process execution            /processes/{processID}/execution   Creates and
                                                                  executes a job.

  Job status info              /jobs/{jobID}                      Retrieves
                                                                  information
                                                                  about the
                                                                  status of a
                                                                  job.

  Job results                  /jobs/{jobID}/results              Retrieves the
                                                                  result(s) of a
                                                                  job.

  Job list                     /jobs                              Retrieves the
                                                                  list of jobs.

  Job Deletion                 /jobs/{jobID}                      Cancels and
                                                                  deletes a job.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Overview of OGC API - Features resources

# Example

This ZOO-Project [demonstration
server](http://tb17.geolabs.fr:8090/ogc-api/index.html) from OGC
Testbed-17 implements a variety of processing algorithms through an
interface that conforms to OGC API - Processes.

The processes offered by the server can be browsed at
<http://tb17.geolabs.fr:8090/ogc-api/processes.html>
