An Introduction to OGC API - Tiles ==================

# Introduction

The OGC API --- Tiles standard defines building blocks for creating Web
APIs that support the retrieval of geospatial information as tiles.
Different forms of geospatial information are supported, such as tiles
of vector features ("vector tiles"), coverages, maps (or imagery) and
other types of geospatial information. Although it can be used
independently, the OGC API --- Tiles building blocks can be combined
with other OGC API Standards and draft specifications for additional
capabilities or increasing interoperability for specific types of data.
The OGC API --- Tiles standard references the OGC Two Dimensional Tile
Matrix Set (TMS) and Tileset Metadata standard, which defines logical
models and encodings for specifying tile matrix sets and describing tile
sets. A tile matrix set is a tiling scheme that enables an application
to partition and index space based on a set of regular grids defined for
multiple scales in a Coordinate Reference System (CRS).

::: note
::: title
Note
:::

This tutorial module is not intended to be a replacement to the actual
**OGC API - Tiles - Part 1: Core** standard. The tutorial intentionally
focuses on a subset of capabilities in order to get the student started
with using the standard. Please refer to the **OGC API - Tiles - Part 1:
Core** standard for additional detail.
:::

# Background

History

:   The OGC API - Tiles standard is a successor to the OGC\'s Web Map
    Tile Service (WMTS) standard, focusing on simple reusable REST API
    building blocks which can be described using the OpenAPI
    specification. Whereas WMTS focused on map tiles, the OGC API ---
    Tiles standard has been designed to support any form of tiled data.

Versions

:   **OGC API - Tiles - Part 1: Core** version 1.0.0 is the current
    latest version

Test Suite

:   

    Test suites are available for:

    :   -   [OGC API -
            Tiles](https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-ogcapi-tiles10)

Implementations

:   Implementations can be found on the Compliance Database here
    \<<http://www.opengeospatial.org/resource/products/byspec>\>

## Usage

There are at least two ways to approach an implementation of the OGC
API - Tiles Standard.

-   Read the landing page, look for links, follow them and discover new
    links until the desired resource is found
-   Read a Web API definition document that specifies a list of paths
    and path templates to resources.

Once you have discovered the relevant resources, then retrieve the list
of available tiling schemes from the resource
[\.../{datasetRoot}/tileMatrixSets]{.title-ref} to identify the tiling
scheme of interest. Retrieve the details of the specific tiling scheme
with \`\.../{datasetRoot}/tileMatrixSets/{tileMatrixSetId}.

Once you have identified a tiling scheme of interest, you can retrieve
tile set metadata for that tiling scheme through
[{datasetRoot}/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}]{.title-ref} and also retrieve
individual tiles with
[{datasetRoot}/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}/{tileMatrix}/{tileRow}/{tileCol}]{.title-ref}.

## Relation to other OGC Standards

Although the OGC API --- Tiles Standard is designed as a building block
that can be leveraged by (or with) other OGC API Standards adding
precisions about specific types of data available as tiles (e.g., OGC
API --- Features standard, and OGC API --- Maps and OGC API ---
Coverages candidate standards), the conformance classes defined in this
Standard are still concrete enough to make it possible to support
distributing and requesting various types of tiled data, including
coverages, vector features and maps, by relying strictly on the content
herein and in the OGC Two Dimensional Tile Matrix Set and Tile Set
Metadata 2.0 standard.

# Overview of Resources

**OGC API - Tiles - Part 1: Core** defines the resources listed in the
following table.

  **Resource name**                                                           **Common path**
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Landing page                                                                {datasetRoot}/
  Conformance declaration                                                     {datasetRoot}/conformance
  Tiling Schemes                                                              {datasetRoot}/tileMatrixSets
  Tiling Scheme (tile matrix set) **Dataset Tiles** *Dataset Feature Tiles*   {datasetRoot}/tileMatrixSets/{tileMatrixSetId}
  Dataset tileset list^1,2^                                                   {datasetRoot}/tiles
  Dataset tileset metadata^1,2^ (in one tile matrix set^2^)                   {datasetRoot}/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}
  Dataset feature tile^1,3^ *Dataset Map tiles*                               {datasetRoot}/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}/{tileMatrix}/{tileRow}/{tileCol}
  Map tileset list^2^ (geospatial resources^1^)                               {datasetRoot}/map/tiles
  Map tileset metadata^2^ (geospatial resources^1^)                           {datasetRoot}/map/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}
  Map tile^1^ **Geospatial data collections**^5^                              {datasetRoot}/map/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}/{tileMatrix}/{tileRow}/{tileCol}
  Collections^5^                                                              {datasetRoot}/collections
  Collection^5^ *Collection Feature Tiles*^3^                                 {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}
  Feature tileset list^2^                                                     {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/tiles
  Feature tileset metadata^2^                                                 {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}
  Feature tile^3^ *Collection Map tiles*                                      {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}/{tileMatrix}/{tileRow}/{tileCol}
  Map tileset list^2^                                                         {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/map/tiles
  Map tileset metadata^2^                                                     {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/map/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}
  Map tile *Coverage tiles*                                                   {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/map/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}/{tileMatrix}/{tileRow}/{tileCol}
  Coverage tileset list^2^                                                    {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/coverage/tiles
  Coverage tileset metadata^2^                                                {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/coverage/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}
  Coverage tile                                                               {datasetRoot}/collections/{collectionId}/coverage/tiles/{tileMatrixSetId}/{tileMatrix}/{tileRow}/{tileCol}

# Example

This [demonstration server](https://demo.ldproxy.net/zoomstack/)
publishes tiled feature data through an interface that conforms to OGC
API - Tiles.

An example request that can be used to retrieve data, referenced to
WebMercatorQuad, from the OS Zoomstack collection is
<https://demo.ldproxy.net/zoomstack/tiles/WebMercatorQuad/0/0/0?f=mvt>

In this case the data is encoded in Mapbox Vector Tiles (MVT) format.

Once downloaded, a client application can then display or process the
data.

![image](../img/mvt_example.png){width="40.0%"}
