# Modeling Guidelines

The GeoPackage encoding standard mandates in Requirements
[22](http://www.geopackage.org/spec/#r22) and
[30](http://www.geopackage.org/spec/#r30) that vector feature user
tables shall only have a single geometry. This is advantageous for two
reasons:

-   It keeps the semantics of the data model concise: a feature has one
    shape. This is in line with other vector data formats with which
    GeoPackage is often compared, such as Shapefile or GeoJSON. By
    sharing this restriction, converting data from one format to another
    is more straightforward. This is particularly beneficial in
    enterprise workflows. For example, mobile components use a
    GeoPackage to view the business data, while the web-clients use a
    GeoJSON version of the same.
-   Allowing multiple geometries per feature table would compromise
    GeoPackage\'s position in the GIS application ecosystem. Most
    ready-made GIS data viewers handle data formats in a uniform manner.
    Opening a file creates a layer on map and the layer shows the
    features contained in that file. There are usually some
    UI-capabilities to view properties of a feature or change the
    styling of a feature. If feature tables were to contain multiple
    geometries, the visualization of a GeoPackage in such a COTS-viewer
    would be much more complicated. What geometry should be shown on the
    map? All of them? Only the first? Editing tools would create a
    similar set of problems.

This restriction should not be seen as a limitation. Since a GeoPackage
is a relational database, users can create rich data models to describe
the required scenarios. Instead of adding more geometry columns to a
single table, the general approach is to extract these geometries into a
separate table, creating a one-to-many relationship between the
geometries and the feature.

This document illustrates three different use-cases for associating
multiple geometries with a single feature. For each, it:

-   describes a common use-case
-   presents a corresponding example of the database schema
-   shows how these tables should be appropriately registered in the
    gpkg\_\* tables
-   shows how views can be used to enhance the utility and usability of
    the resulting GeoPackage

## Tracking previous geometries of a single feature

### Example use case

You want to store the history of edits to the geometry of a
pipe-feature. For each edit, you want to keep track of when that
modification was made.

The last edit is the current geometry of the feature. This is the main
pipe geometry that you want to present to your users by default.

Proposed Solution: Store the geometries of the feature in a table
separate from the table that contains the pipe-metadata. These are the
historical. Link these to the pipe-table.

Use a view to links a pipe to its most recent geometry. Add this view to
the gpkg_contents table.

### Table Design

![image](../img/mgimage001.png)

### View Design

    CREATE VIEW pipes_current AS 
    SELECT shape, max(date_created), type
    FROM pipe_history as A JOIN pipes as B 
    ON A.pipe_id=B.pipe_id 
    GROUP BY B.pipe_id;                       

### Table Entries

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `table_name`    `data_type`   `identifier`    `description`                `srs_id`
  --------------- ------------- --------------- ---------------------------- ----------
  pipe_history    features      pipe_history    pipe edits                   4326

  pipes_current   features      pipes_current   current pipes                4326
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Table 1: `gpkg_contents`

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `table_name`    `column_name`   `geometry_type_name`   `srs_id`   `z`        `m`
  --------------- --------------- ---------------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
  pipe_history    shape           Geometry               4326       2          2

  pipes_current   shape           Geometry               4326       2          2
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Table 2: `gpkg_geometry_columns`

## Features consisting of multiple components

### Example use case

You need to model a feature that has multiple geometries. Associated
with this main feature, are ancillary features, each which its own
properties and shape. For example, the main feature is a park with a
polygon boundary. Associated with this park are entrances, which are
modeled as points.

### Proposed Solution

Store the main features separately from the ancillary features. This
allows you to associate different metadata with each feature/subfeature.

The park -- boundary + entrances -- can be tied together by using a
view. This provides the "overview" picture, which remodels the park as a
collection of geometries.

### Table Design

![image](../img/mgimage002.png)

### View Design

*Note: This statement uses the ST\_\* functions from the GPKG SQLite
extension (cf. https://bitbucket.org/luciad/libgpkg)*

    CREATE VIEW park_complete AS 
    SELECT A.park_id, ST_GeomFromText('GEOMETRYCOLLECTION(' || ST_AsText(A.shape) || ',' || group_concat(ST_AsText(B.shape)) ||')')  as shape
    FROM park_json as A 
    JOIN park_entrances_json as B 
    ON A.park_id = B.park_id
    GROUP BY A.park_id;

### Table Entries

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `table_name`     `data_type`   `identifier`     `description`                `srs_id`
  ---------------- ------------- ---------------- ---------------------------- ----------
  park             features      park             Park boundaries              4326

  park_entrances   features      park_entrances   Park entrances               4326

  park_complete    features      park_complete    association of park boundary 4326
                                                  with entrances               
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Table 3: `gpkg_contents`

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `table_name`    `column_name`   `geometry_type_name`   `srs_id`   `z`        `m`
  --------------- --------------- ---------------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
  park            shape           Geometry               4326       2          2

  park_entrance   shape           Geometry               4326       2          2

  park_complete   shape           Geometry               4326       2          2
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Table 4: `gpkg_geometry_columns`

## Features that have multi-resolution

### Example use case

For efficiency reasons, it is often desirable to have the same feature
represented by different geometries of varying resolution. This is
typically used for features with large extents, such as roads, rivers,
municipal boundaries, etc .... The viewer application shows the coarser
version of geometries at smaller scales (ie. zoomed out), while at
larger scales (ie. zoomed in) it shows the most detailed version. In
general, you would define a handful of scale-breaks upfront.

### Proposed Solution

Suppose we have multiple resolutions for roads in a road dataset:

-   Store all geometries in a table, separate from the properties of the
    road. Associate with each geometry the scale-break for which it
    applies. In our example, we are using the
    \[min\|max\]scale_denominator columns to store the scale-break
    values.
-   A view joins together the properties with the geometries. This view
    will in effect contain many duplicates and should not be rendered
    as-is.

This solution requires the viewer-application to apply the correct
filtering, relying on the min-max scale associated with the geometry.
That is, the application only renders the geometries which are
appropriate for each scale-break. This is an application-level
requirement, unrelated to the GeoPackage format, and the implementation
depends on the particular product you would be using. For products that
support SLD, this scale-based filtering is fairly straightforward. In
your FeatureTypeStyle, create multiple rules, one for each scale-break
on the map. In each rule, filter all the geometries that do not
correspond to the desired scalebreak.

For example, in SLD, a rule to only show the roads with a coarse
resolution (zoomed out) would look something like this:

    <Rule>
      <Name>small scale</Name>
      <Description>
        <Title>small scaled roads</Title>
        <Abstract>shows only the low resolution roads</Abstract>
      </Description>
      <ogc:Filter>
        <ogc:PropertyIsGreaterThan>
          <ogc:PropertyName>min_scale_denominator</ogc:PropertyName>
          <ogc:Literal>2.0E8</ogc:Literal>
        </ogc:PropertyIsGreaterThan>
      </ogc:Filter>
      <MinScaleDenominator>2.0E8</MinScaleDenominator>
      <LineSymbolizer>
        <Stroke>
          <SvgParameter name="stroke">#0000ff</SvgParameter>
          <SvgParameter name="stroke-width">2</SvgParameter>
        </Stroke>
      </LineSymbolizer>
    </Rule>

### Table Design

![image](../img/mgimage003.png)

### View Design

    CREATE VIEW  roads_all AS 
    SELECT  *
    FROM road as A 
    JOIN road_geometries as B 
    ON A.road_id = B.road_id                      

### Table Entries

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `table_name`      `data_type`   `identifier`      `description`                `srs_id`
  ----------------- ------------- ----------------- ---------------------------- ----------
  road_geometries   features      road_geometries   Multiple resolution for road 4326
                                                    geometries                   

  roads_all         features      roads_all         Multiple resolutions for     4326
                                                    road geometries, associated  
                                                    with properties of the roads 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Table 5: `gpkg_contents`

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `table_name`      `column_name`   `geometry_type_name`   `srs_id`   `z`        `m`
  ----------------- --------------- ---------------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
  road_geometries   shape           Geometry               4326       2          2

  roads_all         shape           Geometry               4326       2          2
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Table 6: `gpkg_geometry_columns`
